# Activities
Activities are used to offer your registrants the opportunity to create their own schedule for a given session. This help session explains how to create and set up Activities.  
  



This video provides a quick overview of how activities work for in the registration process as well as how they are created and set up.



 


## Activity Template Setup


The basic building block of Activity setup is the Activity Template. This video shows how to create and edit Activity Templates (also called Activity Masters).


**To create an Activity Template:**


1. 1. Click on **Settings.**
	2. Expand **Activity Templates.**
	3. Select **Activity Templates.**
	4. **Create a** **New Activity Template** or edit an existing one by clicking on the edit icon.



 


## Activity Categories


Activity Categories are an optional setting. They can be used for the visual organization of Activities as well as placing limits on how many activities from a specific category can be chosen in a given Activity Group.


**To create an Activity Category:**


1. 1. Click on **Settings.**
	2. Expand **Activity Templates.**
	3. Select **Activity Categories.**
	4. **Create a New Activity Category** or edit an existing **Activity Categories** by clicking on the edit icon.



 


## Activity Groups


To create a schedule for registrants, an Activity Group must be created. This video shows how to create an Activity Group and add Activity Templates to it.


**To create an Activity Group:**


1. 1. Click on **Scheduling.**
	2. Expand **Activities.**
	3. Select **Activity Groups** to open the **Activity Group Editor.**



 


## Schedule an Activity Group


Once an Activity Group has been created, it must be connected to one (or more) sessions in order for clients to be able to create their schedule. This video shows how to create that connection in the Session Editing Wizard.


**To Schedule an Activity Group:**


1. 1. Click on **View Summary of Sessions** or click on the **My Sessions** link.
	2. Select the session from the list by clicking on the edit icon to open the **Session** **Editing Wizard.**
	3. Expand **Additional Information** menu on the left.
	4. Click on **Activities.**



  
  


