# Add Fees
Some fees don't fall neatly into store purchases or session fees. The Add Fees feature can place a non-refundable fee or additional fee directly onto the account.


**To find where to add fees:**


1. 1. Open the desired account.
	2. Under Common Tasks, Click View Financial History.
	3. Select the Add Fees button under Common Tasks. You may then select the desired fee type.


 





  
  



## Add a Non-refundable Session Fee


A **Non-refundable Session Fee** bills an individual for a session while not placing them on the session roster for that program.  Monies paid towards a non-refundable session fee are still allocated toward that session. 


**To add a Non-refundable Session Fee:**


1. 1. Open the desired account.
	2. Click **View Financial History.**
	3. Click **Add Fees** under Common Tasks.
	4. Choose **Non-refundable Session Fee.**
	5. Enter the Non-refundable Fee Information.
		* Select a **Season** and **Location**to filter your session list.
		* Choose a **Session** from dropdown menu.
		* Indicate which **Individual**to assign the fee to.
		* Enter the desired **Fee Amount.**
	6. Click the **Add Fee** button.



#### 
 Tip


When adding a non-refundable session fee, be specific about the Individual you are assigning the fee. This will display on the financial record!



## 


## Add a Seasonal Fee


A Seasonal Fee is charged once per season.  It is not a session fee, but it is usually triggered by making a reservation.


**To manually add a Seasonal Fee, take the following steps:**


1. 1. Open the desired account.
	2. Click **View Financial History.**
	3. Click **Add Fees** under Common Tasks.
	4. Choose **Seasonal Fee.**
	5. Select the appropriate Seasonal Fee from the dropdown menu.
	6. Enter the Seasonal Fee information.
		* Indicate the **Fee Amount.**
		* Enter a **Fee Date.**
		* Select the correct **Season** for the fee.
		* If the fee is Person-based, indicate who the fee is to be **Applied To.**
	7. Click the **Insert Fee**button.


 


## Add an Account Fee


An Account Fee is a custom fee created specifically for your organization. 


**To manually add an Account Fee, take the following steps:**


1. 1. Open the desired account.
	2. Click **View Financial History.**
	3. Click **Add Fees** under Common Tasks.
	4. Choose **Account Fee.**
	5. Select the appropriate Account Fee from the dropdown menu.
	6. Enter the Account Fee information.
		* Indicate the fee **Date.**
		* Enter the **Fee Amount.**
		* Record a **Comment**which will be visible to the Primary Contact.
