# Admin User Roles
Admin roles are used to manage access to various UltraCamp features. The standard roles available to Admin Users are listed below, along with a brief description. This isn't a comprehensive list of everything a specific role can or can't access, but it does provide a quick guide to role selection.


To add, edit, or review users:


1. 1. Go to the **Settings** menu
	2. Expand the **System / Management** section
	3. Click the **Users**link


 


## **Roles**


Standard Roles are pre-generated by UltraCamp to fit most access scenarios. Additional Custom Roles can be created if desired.





## 


## **Roles Descriptions**


* **Master Admin**
	+ Access to everything in your database.
* **Data Admin****:**
	+ Access to view and edit all reservation and individual data in your database.
	+ Cannot create or edit settings or sessions.
	+ Cannot access Medical Data or Financial Reports
* **Finance Admin****:**
	+ Access to view and edit all financial data in your database.
	+ Cannot create or edit settings outside the Accounting menu.
	+ Cannot access Medical Data
* **Development Admin****:**
	+ Access to all aspects of the Donor Management system.
	+ Access to create and edit individual and account information including making and refunding payments.
	+ Cannot access Medical Data.
* **Configuration Admin****:**
	+ Access to templates and scheduling for creating sessions.
	+ Cannot access or create account or individual information.
	+ Cannot access reporting.
* **Medical Admin****:**
	+ Access to view and edit all settings in the Health menu.
	+ Access to general reporting and custom reporting.
	+ Access to edit health information on an individual and account level.
* **Gallery Admin****:**
	+ Ability to upload, edit, and delete photos from the Photo Gallery.
* **Store Admin****:**
	+ Access to the Online Store in the Extra Services menu.
	+ Can create, edit, and report on products and order types.
* **Retreat Admin****:**
	+ Access to create and edit all Retreat Module settings, Account and Individual information, and Retreat Reservations.
	+ Access to all Retreat / Conference Center Reports and custom reporting.
	+ Access to payments and refund capabilities.
	+ Cannot access Health menu.
	+ Cannot access Medical or Financial reporting.
* **Data Entry****:**
	+ Access to create and edit Account and Individual information, including reservations and payments.
	+ Cannot cancel payments, run reports, or access Medical Information once it is entered.
	+ Cannot access settings or sessions.
* **Medical Reports:**
	+ Access to the reporting functions in the Health menu and custom reporting.
	+ Cannot create, edit or access account information outside the Health reports.
* **Finance Reports****:**
	+ Access to the reports in the Financial section of the Reports menu and view the Finance Detail on an account.
	+ Cannot change financial, individual, or account information.
	+ Cannot access settings or sessions.
* **Standard Reports:**
	+ Access to Standard Reports and custom reporting.
	+ Cannot access Financial or Medical reports.


 


  
  


