# Label Maker 
UltraCamp can generate a page of labels based on information from your database. Labels are created from a stored group, which allows for a great deal of customization.  


**Info**: A stored group must be created first, before it can be used for labels.



  
  



## Create Labels


To create labels:


1. 1. Go to the **Tools** menu and click on **Correspondence**.
	2. Select [**Label Maker**.](https://www.ultracamp.com/admin/Reports/LabelMaker.aspx)
	3. Select stored group from dropdown menu.
	4. Select **label template** from downtown menu or enter Avery Code and click **Next**.
	5. Select a previously saved template, this will populate the Label Design area with the template's personalization fields or save the existing Label Design for future use as a template by clicking the **Save as a new template**.
	6. Use the **Label Design** field to compose your label. Any text you type in this field will appear on each label.



#### 
 Tip


Depending on the Label template you select, you can do more than just create labels--the Label Maker can be used to create such things as nametags, ID cards, and personalized letters.



 


### Label Design


* **Personalization Fields:**To customize each label with unique individual information, you will need to use the Personalization Fields found in the dropdown menu. Place your cursor where you want the personalized information and then select the desired field from the dropdown menu.
	+ UltraCamp will place a set of code at your cursor. When the labels are generated, this code will be replaced with the appropriate personalized data.
	+ Simple HTML can be used to change the font size, color, etc. of label text. Examples are provided on the Label Maker page as reference.
* **Labels Per Record:** You may generate multiple copies of a label by entering a number greater than 1 in the Labels per record field.
* **Repeat Pattern:**If you indicate you wish to print multiple **labels per record**, you can designate the Repeat Pattern using the provided radio buttons.
* **Create Labels:**click when ready to generate a pdf.



#### 
 Tip


When printing labels, be sure that you are printing labels at "Actual Size" and that any sort of "Shrink to Fit" or Page Scaling is off. Otherwise the label text will drift as the labels print and may not even fit on the physical label. If you don't see these settings in your Print Settings for the label, you may need to download the file and open it with Adobe Reader or another pdf reader software.



 

