# Payment Plans
Payment plans allow the automatic collection of funds via credit card or ACH on a predefined schedule. Once created, a payment plan may then be scheduled for each session for which the payment plan should be available.


 


## Payment Plan Templates


A Payment Plan template must first be created before it can be scheduled.


**To create a Payment Plan Template:**


1. 1. Go to **Settings.**
	2. Expand the **Fees / Payment** menu.
	3. Click on **Payment Plan Templates.**


### 


### Basic Information


* **Name:**If you have a large number of payment plans, it may be helpful to use a name that describes the type of payment such as "6 Month Plan or 25% down".
* **Plan type:** The session plan is based on the session balance. The account plan is based on the account balance.
* **Fee for using plan:** This is only available for the Session Plan.
* **Allocation Account**: When a credit is added to an account, UltraCamp must assign this credit to the fees on the account.
* **Permitted Payment Types:**Select the accepted types of payments.
* **Editable by Public:** When checked, the public can delete scheduled credit card payments.
* **Visible by Public:** Checked by default, the Payment Plans will be visible on the public side.
* **Use Last Paid-in-full Due Date:**Based on the account, this will use the paid-in-fill due date from the last session in the cart to the calculate when monthly payments are due.


Click **Save Plan** before selecting Payment Plan Schedule.


### 


### Payment Plan Schedule


* **Add a new breakpoint:** Create a schedule for the payment plan by adding a payment plan member for each date on which funds should be collected.


 


## Scheduling Payment Plans


Once a Payment Plan template has been created, it can be scheduled for a session.


**To schedule a Payment Plan:**


1. Click on **Scheduling** and expand **Finances.**
2. Select **Payment Plans.**
3. Select the season, location and payment plans from the dropdown menus.
4. Click Load.
5. Select the appropriate sessions and enter optional dates.





 


## Declined Scheduled Payments


* When a payment is declined, the system will keep attempting payments on the payment account in the future, even if the initial payment fully failed.
* Admins will need to contact the cardholder and let them know they need to update their payment information for the payment plan to work.



#### 
 Note


Scheduled payments that fail will be flagged on the **Finance Detail**page.



  
  


